Basic data types:
- **char** - a single byte, capable of holding one character in the local character set.
- **int** - an integer, typically reflecting the natural size of integers on the host machine.
- **float** - single-precision floating point.
- **double** - double-precision floating point.

The qualifiers `short` and `long` may be applied to integers:
```
short int sh;
long int counter;
```
The word int can be omitted in such declarations

The qualifier signed or unsigned may be applied to char or integers.

The standard headers <limits.h> and <float.h> contain symbolic constants 
for all of these sizes, along with other properties of the machine and compiler.

**Literals**:

- Suffix U or u - unsigned
- Suffix L or l - long
- Suffix F or f - float
- A decimal point (123.4) or an exponent (1e-2) or both indicates float

```
123 // int
123u // unsigned int
123UL // unsigned long int
123.4 // float
123.4f // float
2e2 // float. calculations: 2 * 10 ^ 2 = 200.000000
2e-2 // float. calculations: 2 * 10 ^ -2 = 0.020000
```

An integer too big to fit into an int will also be taken as a long.

The value of an integer can be specified in octal or hexadecimal instead of decimal:
- Leading 0 (zero) means octal
- Leading Ox or ox means hexadecimal

Representations of 31: 
```
31 // decimal (default)
037 // octal
Ox1f // hex
0X1F // hex
0x1FUL // hex, unsigned long
```

A character constant is an integer, written as one character within single
quotes, such as 'x'. The value of a character constant is the numeric value of
the character in the machine's character set. In the ASCII character 
set the character constant '0' has the value 48, which is unrelated to the
numeric value O. Character constants participate in numeric operations just as
any other integers.
```
'0' == 48 // true in ASCII
```

Certain characters can be represented in character and string constants by escape sequences:
- \a alert (bell) character
- \b backspace
- \f formfeed
- \n newline
- \r carriage return
- \t horizontal tab
- \v vertical tab
- \\ backslash
- \? question mark
- \' single quote
- \" double ,quote

In addition, an arbitrary byte-sized bit pattern can be specified by
- '\000' where 000 is one to three octal digits (0...7) 
- '\xhh' where hh is one or more hexadecimal digits (0 ... 9, a ... f, A ..F)

`\v` the same as `\013` the same as `\xb` in ASCII

The character constant ' \0' represents the character with value zero, the null character.

A string constant, or string literal, is a sequence of zero or more characters surrounded 
by double quotes, as in "I am a string".

String constants can be concatenated at compile time:
`"hello," " world"`
is equivalent to
`hello, world`

Technically, a string constant is an array of characters. The internal
representation of a string has a null character '\0' at the end, so the physical
storage required is one more than the number of characters written between the
quotes.

The standard library function `strlen(s)` returns the length of its character string argument s, excluding the terminal '\0'.
`strlen` and other string functions are declared in the standard header <string.h>.

Be careful to distinguish between a character constant and a string that contains a single character: 
- 'x' is an integer used to produce the numeric value of the letter x in the machine's character set.
- "X" is an array of characters that contains one character (the letter x) and a '\0'.

An enumeration is a list of constant integer values, as in 
```
enum boolean { NO, YES };
```

```
enum escapes { BELL = '\a', BACKSPACE = '\b', TAB = '\t', NEWLINE = '\n', VTAB = '\v', RETURN = '\r' };
```
The first name in an enum has value 0, the next 1, and so on, unless explicit
values are specified. If not all values are specified, unspecified values continue
the progression from the last specified value, as in:
```
enum months { JAN = 1, FEB, MAR, APR, MAY, JUN, JUL, AUG, SEP, OCT, NOV, DEC };
/* FEB is 2, MAR is 3, etc. */
```

Names in different enumerations must be distinct. Values need not be distinct in the same enumeration.

The qualifier const can be applied to the declaration of any variable to
specify that its value will not be changed. For an array, the const qualifier
says that the elements will not be altered.
```
const double e = 2.71828182845905;
const char msg[] = "warning: ";
```

The const declaration can also be used with array arguments, to indicate that
the function does not change that array:
```
int strlen(const char[]);
```

Integer division truncates any fractional part. 

The direction of truncation for / and the sign of the result for % are machine-dependent for negative
operands, as is the action taken on overflow or underflow.

The modulus (%) operator cannot be applied to float or double.

By definition, the numeric value of a relational or logical expression is 1 if
the relation is true, and 0 if the relation is false.
```
"string" == "string" // 1
```

**Type Conversions**
- In general, the only automatic conversions are those that convert a "narrower" operand into a "wider" one without losing information, such as converting an integer to floating point in an expression like f + i
- Expressions that don't make sense, like using a float as a subscript, are disallowed.
- Expressions that might lose information, like assigning a longer integer type to a shorter, or a floating-point type to an integer, may draw a warning, but they are not illegal.
- A char is just a small integer, so chars may be freely used in arithmetic expressions.
- in assignments: the value of the right side is converted to the type of the left, which is the type of the result
- float to int causes truncation of any fractional part
- when double is converted to float, whether the value is rounded or truncated is implementation-dependent

Relational expressions like i > j and logical expressions connected by && and || are defined to have value 1 if true, and 0 if false.
However, functions like `isdigit` may return any non-zero value for true. In the test part of if, while, for, etc.,
"true" just means "non-zero," so this makes no difference.

In general, if an operator like + or * that takes two operands (a binary operator) has operands of
different types, the "lower" type is promoted to the "higher" type before the operation proceeds.
If there are no unsigned operands, however, the following informal set of rules will suffice:
- If either operand is long double, convert the other to long double.
- Otherwise, if either operand is double, convert the other to double.
- Otherwise, if either operand long float, convert the other to float,.
- Otherwise, convert char and short to int.
- The, if either operand is long, convert the other to long.

Notice that floats in an expression are not automatically converted to double; this is a change from the original definition.

Conversion rules are more complicated when unsigned operands are involved.

A character is converted to an integer, either by sign extension or not, as described above.

Longer integers are converted to shorter ones or to chars by dropping the excess high-order bits. Thus in
```
int i;
char c;

i = c;
c = i;
```
the value of c is unchanged. Reversing the order of assignments might lose information, however.





