### Rendering Geometry

WebGL renders objects following a "divide and conquer" approach. Complex
polygons are decomposed into triangles, lines, and point primitives. Then, each
geometric primitive is processed in parallel by the GPU through a series of
steps, known as the **rendering pipeline**, in order to create the final scene that is
displayed on the canvas.

**Vertices** are the points that define the corners of 3D objects. Each vertex is represented by
three floating-point numbers that correspond to the x, y, and z coordinates of the vertex.

**Indices** are numeric labels for the vertices in a given 3D scene. Indices allow us to tell WebGL
how to connect vertices in order to produce a surface. 

There are two kind of **WebGL buffers** used to describe and process geometry:
- Buffers that contain vertex data are known as **Vertex Buffer Objects (VBOs)**.
- Similarly, buffers that contain index data are known as **Index Buffer Objects
(IBOs)**.

**Vertex Buffer Objects (VBOs)** contain the data that WebGL requires to describe the geometry that is going to be
rendered. Vertex coordinates are usually stored and processed in WebGL as VBOs. Additionally, there are several data 
elements such as vertex normals, colors, and texture coordinates, among others, that can be modeled as VBOs.

**Vertex shader** is called on each vertex. This shader manipulates per-vertex data such
as vertex coordinates, normals, colors, and texture coordinates. This data is represented
by attributes inside the vertex shader. Each attribute points to a VBO from where it reads
vertex data.

**Fragment shader** calculates the color of individual pixels. 

Each surface element is called a **fragment**. Since we are dealing with surfaces that are going
to be displayed on your screen, these elements are more commonly known as **pixels**.

**Framebuffer** is a two-dimensional buffer that contains the fragments that have been processed by
the fragment shader. Once all fragments have been processed, a 2D image is formed and
displayed on screen. The framebuffer is the final destination of the rendering pipeline.

**Attributes** are input variables used in the vertex shader. 
Attributes will be different every time the vertex shader is invoked.
For example, vertex coordinates, vertex colors, and so on.

**Uniforms** are input variables available for both the vertex shader and fragment shader.
Uniforms are constant during a rendering cycle. 
For example, lights position.

**Varyings** are used for passing data from the vertex shader to the fragment shader