**Locks** are the mechanism the database server uses to control simultaneous use of data
resources. When some portion of the database is locked, any other users wishing to
modify (or possibly read) that data must wait until the lock has been released. Most
database servers use one of two locking strategies:
- Database writers must request and receive from the server a write lock to modify
data, and database readers must request and receive from the server a read lock to
query data. While multiple users can read data simultaneously, only one write lock
is given out at a time for each table (or portion thereof), and read requests are
blocked until the write lock is released.
- Database writers must request and receive from the server a write lock to modify
data, but readers do not need any type of lock to query data. Instead, the server
ensures that a reader sees a consistent view of the data (the data seems the same
even though other users may be making modifications) from the time her query
begins until her query has finished. This approach is known as **versioning**.

The server may apply a lock at one of three different levels, or
granularities:
- **Table locks**. Keep multiple users from modifying data in the same table simultaneously
- **Page locks**. Keep multiple users from modifying data on the same page (a page is a segment of
memory generally in the range of 2 KB to 16 KB) of a table simultaneously
- **Row locks**. Keep multiple users from modifying the same row in a table simultaneously

**Transaction** is a device for grouping together multiple SQL statements such that either all or 
none of the statements succeed (a property known as **atomicity**).

Of course, if the program manages to complete both update statements but the server
shuts down before a commit or rollback can be executed, then the transaction will be
rolled back when the server comes back online. Additionally, if your
program finishes a transaction and issues a commit, but the server shuts down before
the changes have been applied to permanent storage, then the database server must reapply the
changes from your transaction when the server is restarted (a property known as
**durability**).

Database servers handle transaction creation in one of two ways:
- An active transaction is always associated with a database session, so there is no
need or method to explicitly begin a transaction. When the current transaction
ends, the server automatically begins a new transaction for your session.
- Auto-commit mode. Unless you explicitly begin a transaction, individual SQL statements are automatically
committed independently of one another.

Once a transaction has begun, whether explicitly via the start transaction command
or implicitly by the database server, you must explicitly end your transaction by 
commit/rollback command. 

Along with issuing either the commit or rollback command, there are several other
scenarios by which your transaction can end:
- The server shuts down, in which case, your transaction will be rolled back automatically
when the server is restarted.
- You issue an SQL schema statement, such as alter table, which will cause the
current transaction to be committed and a new transaction to be started.
- You issue another start transaction command, which will cause the previous
transaction to be committed.
- The server prematurely ends your transaction because the server detects a deadlock
and decides that your transaction is the culprit. In this case, the transaction
will be rolled back and you will receive an error message.

A **deadlock** is a situation when two different transactions are waiting for resources 
that the other transaction currently holds.

You can establish one or more **savepoints** within a transaction and use them to roll back
to a particular location within your transaction rather than rolling all the way back to
the start of the transaction.