Normally you are at liberty to give functions whatever
names you like, but "main" is special-your program begins executing at the
beginning of main. This means that every program must have a main some-
where.

`#include <stdio.h>` tells the compiler to include information about the standard input/output library

A sequence of characters in double quotes, like "hello, world\n", is
called a **character string or string constant**.

**An escape sequence** like
\n provides a general and extensible mechanism for representing hard-to-type
or invisible characters.

In C, all variables must be declared before they are used, usually at the
beginning of the function before any executable statements. A declaration
announces the properties of variables; it consists of a type name and a list of
variables, such as
`int fahr, celsius;`

As in many other languages, integer division truncates: any fractional part is discarded. So:
`
5/9 equal 0
4/3 equal 1

5.0/9.0 equal 0.555556
4.0/3.0 equal 1.333333
`

printf function. Its first argument is a string of characters to be printed, with each
% indicating where one of the other (second, third, ...) arguments is to be substituted, 
and in what form it is to be printed. For instance %d specifies an integer argument, so the statement
`printf("%d\t%d\n", fahr, celsius)`
causes the values of the two integers fahr and celsius to be printed, with a tab (\t) between them

if we augment each %d in the printf statement with a width, the numbers printed will be right-justified in their fields
`printf("%3d %6d\n", fahr, celsius);`

If an arithmetic operator has integer operands, an integer operation is per-
formed. If an arithmetic operator has one floating-point operand and one
integer operand, however, the integer will be converted to floating point before
the operation is done.

in `printf("%3.0f %6.1f\n", fahr, celsius)` the printf conversion specification %3.Of says that a floating-point
number (here fahr) is to be printed at least three characters wide, with no
decimal point and no fraction digits. other examples:
- %d print as decimal integer
- %6d print as decimal integer, at least 6 characters wide
- %f print as floating point
- %6f print as floating point, at least 6 characters wide
- %.2f print as floating point, 2 characters after decimal point
- %6.2f print as floating point, at least 6 wide and 2 after decimal point

printf format specifiers
- `%c` character
- `%d` decimal (integer) number (base 10)
- `%e` exponential floating-point number
- `%f` floating-point number
- `%i` integer (base 10)
- `%o` octal number (base 8)
- `%s` a string of characters
- `%u` unsigned decimal (integer) number
- `%x` number in hexadecimal (base 16)
- `%%` print a percent sign
- `\%` print a percent sign

A #define line defines a symbolic name or symbolic constant to be a particular string of characters
`#define name replacement text`
Thereafter, any occurrence of name (not in quotes and not part of another
name) will be replaced by the corresponding replacement text. The name has
the same form as a variable name: a sequence of letters and digits that begins
with a letter. The replacement text can be any sequence of characters; it is not
limited to numbers. Symbolic constant names are conventionally written in upper case.
Notice that there is no semicolon at the end of a #define line.
When the program is compiled, each occurrence of a symbolic constant is replaced by its corresponding character sequence. 
A C program consists of the following symbolic constant definitions.
```
 #define PI 3.141593
 #define TRUE 1
 #define FALSE 0
 ```

Text input or output, regardless of where it originates or where it goes to, is dealt with as streams of characters.
A text stream is a sequence of characters divided into lines; each line consists of zero or more characters followed by a newline character.
The standard library provides several functions for reading or writing one character at a time, of which `getchar` and `putchar` are the simplest.
`getchar` reads the next input character from a text stream and returns that as its value.
`putchar` prints a character each time it is called.
What appears to be a character on the keyboard or screen is of course, like
everything else, stored internally just as a bit pattern. The·type char is specifi-
cally meant for storing such character data, but any integer type can be used.
```
int c;
c = getchar();
```
`getchar` returns a distinctive value when there is no more
input, a value that cannot be confused with any real character. This value is
called EOF, for "end of file." We must declare c to be a type big enough to
hold any value that getchar returns. We can't use char since c must be big
enough to hold EOF in addition to any possible char.

EOF is an integer defined in <stdio. h>, but the specific numeric value
doesn't matter as long as it is not the same as any char value.

long integers are at least 32 bit. Although on some
machines, int and long are the same size, on others an int is 16 bits, with a
maximum value of 32767, and it would take relatively little input to overflow an
int counter.

Grammatical rules of C require that a for statement have a body. The isolated semicolon is called a null statement.
```
for (nc = 0; getchar() 1= EOF; ++nc)
    ;
```

- String constant: sequence of character enclosed between double quotes `"Hello, World!"`
- Character constant: single character enclosed between single quotes `'A'`. represents an integer value equal
to the numerical value of the character in the machine's character set. So, for example, `'A'` is a character constant; in the ASCII character
set its value is 65, the internal representation of the character A.

The escape sequences used in string constants are also legal in character constants, so ' \n' stands for the value of the newline character, which is 10 in
ASCII. You should note carefully that' \n' is a single character, and in
expressions is Just an integer; on the other hand, "\n" is a string constant that
happens to contain only one character.

Declaration `int ndigit[10]` declares ndiqi t to be an array of 10 integers. Array subscripts always start at
zero in C, so the elements are `ndigit[0]`, `ndigit[1]`, ..., `ndigit[9]`

A function definition has this form:
```
return-type function-name (parameter declarations, if any)
{
declarations
statements
}
```
