A function definition has this form:
```
return-type function-name (parameter declarations, if any)
{
declarations
statements
}
```

if the return type is omitted, int is assumed.

The expression of the return statement will be converted to the return type of the function if necessary.

Suppose that three functions are stored in three files called main.c, getline.c, and strindex.c. Then the command
```
cc main.c getline.c strindex.c
```
compiles the three files, placing the resulting object code in files main.o, getline.o, and strindex.o, then loads them all into an executable
file called a.out. If there is an error, say in main.c, that file can be recompiled by itself and the result loaded with the previous object files, with the command
```
    cc main.c getline.o strindex.o
```
The cc command uses the ".c" versus ".o" naming convention to distinguish source files from object files.

A **function prototype** is simply the **declaration** of a function that specifies function's name, parameters and return type. It doesn't contain function body.
```
int addNumbers(int a, int b); 
```

**Definition** of a function is used for allocating memory for a function. A function or a variable can be declared any number of times but, it can be defined only once.
```
int addNumbers(int a, int b) {
    return (a+b);
}
```
If a function and a call to it in main have inconsistent types in the same source file, the error will be detected by the compiler.
But if (as is more likely) a function and a call were compiled separately, the mismatch would not be detected, the function would return a type that main would treat as another type, and meaningless answers would result.

The function atof must be declared and defined consistently.
The reason a mismatch can happen is that if there is no function prototype, a function is implicitly declared by its first appearance in an expression, such as
```
sum += atof(line);
```
If a name that has not been previously declared occurs in an expression and is followed by a left parenthesis, it is declared by context to be a function name, the function is assumed to return an int, and nothing is assumed about its arguments.
If a function declaration does not include arguments, that too is taken to mean that nothing is to be assumed about the arguments. All parameter checking is turned off.

A C program consists of a set of external objects, which are either variables or functions.
**Internal variables**: arguments and variables defined inside functions.
**External variables**: variables defined outside of any function, and are thus potentially available to many functions.
Functions themselves are always external, because C does not allow functions to be defined inside other functions.
By default, external variables and functions have the property that all references to them by the same name, even from functions compiled separately, are references to the same thing. (The standard calls this property external linkage.)

For an automatic variable declared at the beginning of a function, the
scope is the function in which the name is declared.

The scope of an external variable or a function lasts from the point at which
it is declared to the end of the file being compiled.

For example, if main, sp, val, push, and pop are defined in one file, in the order shown above, that is
```
main() { ...}
int sp = 0;
double val[MAXVAL];
void push (double f)
{ ... }
double pop(void) { ...}
```
then the variables sp and val may be used in push and pop.
But these names are not visible in main.

On the other hand, if an external variable
- is to be referred to before it is defined, or 
- is defined in a different source file from the one where it is being used
then an `extern` declaration is mandatory.

It is important to distinguish between the declaration of an external variable
and its definition.

**Define external variable** (must be outside any function):
- causes storage to be set aside
- serve as the declaration for the rest of that source file
```
int sp;
double val[MAXVAL];
```
**Declare external variable**:
- declare for the rest of the source file that sp is an int and that val is a
double array (whose size is determined elsewhere), but they do not create the
variables or reserve storage for them
```
extern int sp;
extern double vall];
```

There must be only one definition of an external variable among all the files
that make up the source program; other files may contain extern declarations
to access it. (There may also be extern declarations in the file containing the
definition') Array sizes must be specified with the definition, but are optional
with an extern declaration.

Initialization of an external variable goes only with the definition.

A **header file** is a file with extension .h which contains function declarations and macro definitions to be shared between several source files.

The **static** declaration, applied to an external variable or function, limits the scope of that object to the rest of the
source file being compiled. Static storage is specified by prefixing the normal declaration with the word
`static`.

Normally, function names are global, visible to
any part of the entire program. If a function is declared static, however, its
name is invisible outside of the file in which it is declared.

The static declaration can also be applied to internal variables. Internal
static variables are local to a particular function just as automatic variables
are, but unlike automatics, they remain in existence rather than coming and
going each time the function is activated.

Internal automatic variable:
```
	for (int i = 0; i < 3; ++i) {
		int n = 0;

		printf("%d\n", n++); // prints: 0 0 0
	}
```
Internal static variable:
```
	for (int i = 0; i < 3; ++i) {
		static int n = 0;

		printf("%d\n", n++); // prints: 0 1 2
	}
```

A **register declaration** advises the compiler that the variable in question
will be heavily used. The idea is that register variables are to be placed in
machine registers, which may result in smaller and faster programs. But compilers are free to ignore the advice.
The register declaration looks like:
```
register int X;
register char c;
```

The register declaration can only be applied to automatic variables and to the formal parameters of a function.
In practice, there are restrictions on register variables, reflecting the realities
of underlying hardware. Only a few variables in each function may be kept in
registers, and only certain types are allowed. Excess register declarations are
harmless, however, since the word register is ignored for excess or disallowed
declarations. And it is not possible to take the address of a register variable (a
topic to be covered in Chapter 5), regardless of whether the variable is actually
placed in a register. The specific restrictions on number and types of register
variables vary from machine to machine.

From wiki: register is essentially meaningless in modern compilers due to optimization which will place variables in a register if appropriate regardless of whether the hint is given. When used, register is typically for loop counters, or possibly for other very frequently used variables in the code.

In the absence of explicit initialization, external and static variables are guaranteed to be initialized to zero; automatic and register variables have undefined (i.e., garbage) initial values.

Arithmetic types (int, char, float, etc.) and pointer types are collectively called scalar types. Array and structure types are collectively called aggregate types.

Scalar variables may be initialized when they are defined, by following the name with an equals sign and an expression:
```
int x = 1;
long day = 1000L * 60L * 60L * 24L;
```

For external and static variables:
- the initializer must be a constant expression
- the initialization is done once, conceptually before the program begins execution

For automatic and register variables:
- the initializer may be any expression
- the initialization is done each time the function or block is entered

An array may be initialized like this:
```
int days[] = { 31, 28, 31, 30, 31, 30, 31, 31, 30, 31, 30, 31 };
```
When the size of the array is omitted, the compiler will compute the length by counting the initializers, of which there are 12 in this case.
If there are fewer initializers for an array than the number specified, the missing elements will be zero for external, static, and automatic variables. It is an error to have too many initializers. There is no way to specify repetition of an initializer,' nor to initialize an element in the middle of an array without sup- plying all the preceding values as well. '
Character arrays are a special case of initialization; a string may be used instead of the braces and commas notation:
```
char pattern [] = "ould";
```
is a shorthand for the longer but equivalent
```
char pattern[] = { '0', 'u', '1', 'd', '\0' };
```

C provides certain language facilities by means of a preprocessor, which is
conceptually a separate first step in compilation. The most frequently used
features are:
- `#include`, to include the contents of a file during compilation
- `#define`, to replace a token by an arbitrary sequence of characters
- macros with arguments
- conditional compilation

**File inclusion**: `#include "filename"` or `#include <filename>` is replaced by the contents of the file _filename_.
If the filename is quoted, searching for the file typically begins where the source program was found; if it
is not found there, or if the name is enclosed in < and >, searching follows an implementation-defined rule to find the file.

A **definition** has the form
`#define name replacement text`
It calls for a macro substitution of the simplest kind-subsequent occurrences of
the token name will be replaced by the replacement text. A long definition may be continued onto several lines by placing a \ at the end of each line to be continued.
The scope of a name defined with #define is from its point
of definition to the end of the source file being compiled. A definition may use
previous definitions.

Any name may be defined with any replacement text. For example,
`#define forever for (;;)`
defines a new word, forever, for an infinite loop.

It is also possible to define **macros with arguments**, so the replacement text
can be different for different calls of the macro. As an example, define a macro
called max:
`#define max(A, B) ((A) > <B) ? (A) : (B))`
Although it looks like a function call, a use of max expands into in-line code.
Each occurrence of a formal parameter (here A or B) will be replaced by the
corresponding actual argument. Thus the line
`x = max(p+q, r+s);`
will be replaced by the line
`x = ((p+q) > (r+s) ? (p+q) : (r+s));`
So long as the arguments are treated consistently, this macro will serve for any data type; there is' no need for different kinds of max for different data types, as
there would be with functions.
The expressions are evaluated twice; this is bad if they involve side effects like increment operators or input and output. For instance,
`max(i++, j++) /* WRONG */`
will increment the larger value twice.
Some care also has to be taken with
parentheses to make sure the order of evaluation is preserved; consider what
happens when the macro
`#define square(x) x * x /* WRONG */`
is invoked as square `(z + 1)`.

`#undef` removes (undefines) a name previously created with `#define`.

If, however, a parameter name is preceded by a # in the replacement text, the combination
will be expanded into a quoted string with the parameter replaced by the actual
argument. This can be combined with string concatenation to make, for example, a debugging print macro:
`#define dprint(expr) printf(#expr " = %g\n", expr)`
When this is invoked, as in
`dprint (x/y);`
the macro is expanded into
`printf("x/y" " = %g\n", x/y);`
Within the actual argument, each " is replaced by v" and each \ by \ \, so the
result is a legal string constant.

The preprocessor operator ## provides a way to concatenate actual arguments during macro expansion.
So
```
#include <stdio.h> 
#define concat(a, b) a##b 
int main(void) 
{ 
    int xy = 30; 
    printf("%d", concat(x, y)); 
    return 0; 
} 
```
is expanded into
```
...
printf("%d", xy);
...
```
and prints `30`

It is possible to control preprocessing itself with conditional statements that are evaluated during preprocessing. This provides a way to include code selectively, depending on the value of conditions evaluated during compilation.
The #if line evaluates a constant integer expression (which may not include sizeof, casts, or enum constants). If the expression is non-zero, subsequent lines until an #endif or #elif or #else are included
The special operator `defined` is used in `#if` and `#elif` expressions to test whether a certain name is defined as a macro. 
Example:
```
#if !defined(HDR)
#define HDR
/* contents of hdr.h go here */
#endif
```

The `#ifdef` and `#ifndef` lines are specialized forms that test whether name is defined. 





















